[spec] Auth: consolidate security considerations into new section (#387)
modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol: docs/specification/draft/basic/authorization.mdx

| 403         | Forbidden    | Invalid scopes or insufficient permissions |
| 400         | Bad Request  | Malformed authorization request            |

## 3. Security Considerations

> Implementations **MUST** follow OAuth 2.1 security best practices. Refer to

Reviewer: Typo? Text says to follow "OAuth 2.1 security best practices", but links to "OAuth 2.0" best practices. Perhaps a question for @aaronpk - Have all the OAuth 2.0 best practices been rolled into the [OAuth 2.1 Security Considerations](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-oauth-v2-1-12.html#name-security-considerations) such that we should just refer to the 2.1 spec?

Author: Good catch thanks. Looking through both, it does look like 2.1 covers it. I went through and updated the references to RFC 9700 to be to the corresponding section in Oauth 2.1 instead

Reviewer 2: Yeah OAuth 2.1 should contain all the security best practices in RFC 9700. 2.1 doesn't go into the level of detail in RFC 9700, but the normative requirements should all be there. (If you find anything missing do let me know so I can fix OAuth 2.1!)

1. All authorization endpoints **MUST** be served over HTTPS.
1. All redirect URIs **MUST** be either `localhost` or use HTTPS.

### 3.3 Authorization Code Protection

An attacker who has gained access to an authorization code contained in an authorization response can try to redeem the authorization code for an access token or otherwise make use of the authorization code. (Further described in [RFC 9700 Section 4.5](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9700.html#name-authorization-code-injectio))

MCP clients **MUST** implement PKCE according to [OAuth 2.1 section 7.5.2](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-oauth-v2-1-12.html#name-countermeasures). PKCE helps  prevent authorization code interception attacks by requiring clients to create a secret verifier-challenge pair, ensuring that only the original requestor can exchange an authorization code for tokens.

### 3.3 Open Redirection
An attacker may craft malicious redirect URIs to direct users to phishing sites.

MCP clients **MUST** have redirect URIs registered with the authorization server.

Authorization servers **MUST** validate exact redirect URIs against pre-registered values to prevent redirection attacks.

> MCP clients **SHOULD** use and verify state parameters in the authorization code flow

Reviewer: In the wrong section? This discusses requirements for the Authorization Code Flow, but it's in the section for Dynamic Client Registration

MCP clients **MUST** implement PKCE according to [OAuth 2.1 section 7.5.2](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-oauth-v2-1-12.html#name-countermeasures). PKCE helps  prevent authorization code interception attacks by requiring clients to create a secret verifier-challenge pair, ensuring that only the original requestor can exchange an authorization code for tokens.

### 3.3 Open Redirection
An attacker may craft malicious redirect URIs to direct users to phishing sites.

MCP clients **MUST** have redirect URIs registered with the authorization server.

Authorization servers **MUST** validate exact redirect URIs against pre-registered values to prevent redirection attacks.

MCP clients **SHOULD** use and verify state parameters in the authorization code flow
and discard any results that do not include or have a mis-match with the original state.

Authorization servers **MUST** take precautions to prevent redirecting user agents to untrusted URI's, following suggestions laid out in [RFC 9700 Section 4.11.2](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9700.html#section-4.11.2)

> Authorization servers **SHOULD** only automatically redirect the user agent if it trusts the redirection URI. If the URI is not trusted, the authorization server MAY inform the user and rely on the user to make the correct decision.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Authorization servers **MUST** only automatically redirect the user agent if they trusts the redirection URI. If the URI is not trusted, the authorization server **MAY** inform the user and rely on the user to make the correct decision.
```

We should require this, IMHO. If a redirect is not trusted, is there any scenario where the AS should redirect anyway and make that a secure experience?

Author: I borrowed this language from the best practices [RFC9700](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9700#name-open-redirection), and combined with the sentence above, it seems redundant, so might just remove it.

The issue with a `MUST` here imo is that "trust" isn't well defined.  We have defined above that it needs to be pre-registered etc. but trust is ambiguous.  here's a quote above that line:
> Based on its risk assessment, the authorization server needs to decide whether or not it can trust the redirection URI. It could take into account URI analytics done internally or through some external service to evaluate the credibility and trustworthiness of content behind the URI, and the source of the redirection URI and other client data.

So unless we want to codify a risk assessment, I'd say we just delete this line (will go ahead)

| 403         | Forbidden    | Invalid scopes or insufficient permissions |
| 400         | Bad Request  | Malformed authorization request            |

## 3. Security Considerations

> Implementations **MUST** follow OAuth 2.1 security best practices.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Implementations **MUST** follow OAuth 2.1 security best practices. Refer to
[RFC9700](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9700) for details.
```

1. All redirect URIs **MUST** be either `localhost` or use HTTPS to prevent token and code interception.

### 3.3 Open Redirection
An attacker may craft malicious redirect URIs to direct users to phishing sites 
and intercept credentials during the authorization flow.

MCP clients **MUST** have redirect URIs registered with the authorization server.

Authorization servers **MUST** validate exact redirect URIs against pre-registered values to prevent redirection attacks.

MCP clients **SHOULD** use and verify state parameters in the authorization code flow
and discard any results that do not include or have a mis-match with the original state.

### 3.4 Confused Deputy Problem

An attacker can exploit OAuth proxy configurations that share third-party client credentials 
across multiple users.

When an MCP server fronts an authorization server that does not support dynamic client
registration, the MCP server will use a static client ID to acquire credentials for the 
upstream API.

If the the backing authorization server sets cookies after user consent, an attacker can craft malicious authorization requests that bypass consent flows for previously authorized applications.

> MCP servers using a static client_id for a backing service MUST require explicit approval for each newly registered dynamic client prior to forwarding requests to the backing authorization server for user consent.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
MCP servers using a static client_id for a backing service MUST require explicit approval for each newly registered dynamic client prior to forwarding requests to the backing authorization server for user consent.

### 3.5 Token Validation

MCP servers **MUST** take all necessary steps to ensure no data is returned to unauthorized parties and **MUST** ensure any credentials are valid before processing the request.

For example, a MCP server could validate inbound tokens through one of the following approaches:

1. Token introspection, according to [RFC7662](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7662).  1. JWT validation, according to [RFC 9068](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9068.html).
1. Custom validation, according to the conventions established by the AS.

MCP servers **MUST** strictly validate token audiences and only accept tokens specifically intended for themselves. Implementers **MUST NOT** design architectures where clients send
tokens through the MCP server intended for other resources.
```

Author: Do you have an idea for an "An attacker can..." leading sentence?

I'd like if we clearly articulate the case against token pass-through, but I'm struggling to capture it.

cc @aaronpk  as I think you were quite against pass through.

Reviewer 2: Minor nit: It is not required that an MCP authorization server issue JWT access tokens, so it's inaccurate to refer to the `aud` claim on line 308, and should just refer to "audience" instead, or can say "for example" and refer to RFC9068.

[Section 7.1.4 of OAuth 2.1](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-v2-1-12#section-7.1.4) called "Access Token Privilege Restriction" contains the recommendation of limiting the access token audience to a single resource server, maybe we can use that title for this section and grab some other language from there?

The "an attacker..." sentence is a bit weird, but the rest of the section is good. Here's another one you can add to the list.

* The access token of the upstream API may be an opaque token and the MCP server has no way to introspect the token to validate the audience or know what user it is associated with

Reviewer 3: @aaronpk - thanks for reviewing this! I can tweak the verbiage shortly.

Author: I scooted this into https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol/pull/408 since we might want to go back and forth on it a bit

requests that appear legitimate to resource servers.

Clients **MUST** implement secure token storage and follow OAuth 2.0 best practices,
as outlined in [RFC 9700](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9700).

MCP authorization servers SHOULD enforce token expiration and rotation to limit the window of exploitation.

### 3.2 Token Interception
An attacker positioned between MCP clients and MCP servers can intercept tokens via [Man-in-the-Middle (MITM)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Man-in-the-middle_attack) attacks.

To mitigate the risk of this threat:

1. All authorization endpoints **MUST** be served over HTTPS.
1. MCP clients **MUST** implement PKCE according to [OAuth 2.1 section 7.5.2](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-oauth-v2-1-12.html#name-countermeasures). PKCE helps  prevent authorization code interception attacks by requiring clients to create a secret verifier-challenge pair, ensuring that only the original requestor can exchange an authorization code for tokens.
1. All redirect URIs **MUST** be either `localhost` or use HTTPS to prevent token and code interception.

> ### 3.3 Open Redirection

Reviewer 2: There is a scenario in [Section 4.11.2 of RFC9700](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9700.html#section-4.11.2) that is directly related to the MCP usage of Dynamic Client Registration.

> The attacker could, for example, register a client via dynamic client registration [[RFC7591](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9700.html#RFC7591)] and execute one of the following attacks:

> Intentionally send an erroneous authorization request, e.g., by using an invalid scope value, thus instructing the authorization server to redirect the user agent to its phishing site.
> ...

There are some recommendations for countermeasures in that section.

Author: I added a reference to this section in the paragraph below and copied over the "only automatically redirect..." bit (maybe should quote it? lmkwyt)

An attacker may craft malicious redirect URIs to direct users to phishing sites 
and intercept credentials during the authorization flow.

MCP clients **MUST** have redirect URIs registered with the authorization server.

Authorization servers **MUST** validate exact redirect URIs against pre-registered values to prevent redirection attacks.

MCP clients **SHOULD** use and verify state parameters in the authorization code flow
and discard any results that do not include or have a mis-match with the original state.

> ### 3.4 Confused Deputy Problem

Reviewer 2: This section needs some cleanup on the terminology used. There's a few different terms being used to refer to the same things or aren't previously defined:

* OAuth proxy
* "...fronts an authorization server"
* "backing authorization server"
* "upstream API"

We need to be much clearer about which roles we're talking about here. I would recommend starting with an abbreviated sequence diagram to show the relationships between the different parties, as well as a definition of each term, prior to discussing the attack.

Author: 👍 I'm going to split this out into it's own PR since I think there will be some back and forth to get it right.  This PR moves some other sections around so want to get it in to avoid merge conflicts.

https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol/pull/407

An attacker can exploit OAuth proxy configurations that share third-party client credentials 
across multiple users.

> When an MCP server fronts an authorization server that does not support dynamic client

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When an MCP authorization server fronts an authorization server that does not support dynamic client
```

| 403         | Forbidden    | Invalid scopes or insufficient permissions |
| 400         | Bad Request  | Malformed authorization request            |

## 3. Security Considerations

### 3.1 Client Token Theft
An attacker who gains access to a client's stored tokens can make unauthorized requests to resource servers. Clients MUST securely store tokens following OAuth 2.0 best practices.

### 3.2 Server Token Theft

> An attacker who compromises an MCP authorization server may access stored tokens. MCP authorization servers SHOULD enforce token expiration and rotation to limit the window of exploitation.

Author: good point, let me rework this. I think I'll collapse this and above to be "token theft" since rotation and expiration are a good mitigations for both scenarios.

### 3.3 Token Interception
An attacker positioned between clients and servers can intercept tokens transmitted over insecure connections. All authorization endpoints MUST be served over HTTPS. Clients MUST implement PKCE according to [OAuth 2.1 section 7.5.2](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-oauth-v2-1-12.html#name-countermeasures)

### 3.4 Open Redirection

> An attacker may craft malicious redirect URIs to direct users to phishing sites. MCP authorization servers MUST validate redirect URIs against pre-registered values to prevent redirection attacks.

Author: will reword a bit, but agreed on direction.

###  3.5 Insecure Redirect URIs

> An attacker can capture data transmitted to non-secure endpoints. Redirect URIs MUST be either localhost URLs or HTTPS URLs to prevent token and code interception.

Reviewer 3: I think this can be consolidated in 3.3.

### 3.6 Confused Deputy Problem

> An attacker can exploit OAuth proxy configurations that share 3rd party client credentials across multiple users. When an MCP server fronts another authorization server that does not support dynamic client registration, the MCP uses a static client_id with the backing service. If the backing service sets cookies after user authorization, an attacker can craft malicious authorization requests that bypass consent screens for previously authorized applications. MCP servers using a static client_id for a backing service MUST require explicit approval for each newly registered dynamic client prior to forwarding requests to the backing authorization server for user consent.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An attacker can exploit OAuth proxy configurations that share third-party client credentials 
across multiple users.

When an MCP server fronts an authorization server that does not support dynamic client registration, the MCP server will use a static client ID to acquire credentials for the 
upstream API.

If the MCP server sets cookies after user authorization, an attacker can craft malicious authorization requests that bypass consent flows for previously authorized applications.

MCP servers using a static client ID for an upstream API **MUST** require explicit approval for each newly dynamically registered client prior to forwarding requests to the backing authorization server for user consent.
```

Author: > If the MCP server sets cookies after user authorization
It's the 3p / backing AS that sets the cookie in this case, see this issue: https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol/discussions/265 

will do the other adjustments

| 403         | Forbidden    | Invalid scopes or insufficient permissions |
| 400         | Bad Request  | Malformed authorization request            |

## 3. Security Considerations

Implementations **MUST** follow OAuth 2.1 security best practices as laid out in [Section 7. Security Considerations](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-v2-1-12#name-security-considerations).

### 3.1 Token Theft
Attackers who obtain tokens stored by the client, or tokens cached or logged on the server can access protected resources with
requests that appear legitimate to resource servers.

> Clients **MUST** implement secure token storage and follow OAuth 2.0 best practices,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Clients **MUST** implement secure token storage and follow OAuth best practices,
```

as outlined in [OAuth 2.1, section 7.1](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-v2-1-12#section-7.1).

> MCP authorization servers SHOULD enforce token expiration and rotation to limit the window of exploitation.

Reviewer 2: We should be specific about which tokens we're talking about here. For example:

```suggestion
MCP authorization servers SHOULD issue short-lived access tokens token to reduce the impact of leaked tokens. For public clients, MCP authorization servers MUST rotate refresh tokens as described in [Section 4.3.1 of OAuth 2.1 https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-v2-1-12#section-4.3.1].
```

### 3.2 Communication Security

> An attacker positioned between MCP clients and MCP servers can intercept tokens via [Man-in-the-Middle (MITM)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Man-in-the-middle_attack) attacks.

Reviewer 2: This is not a very compelling sentence, since it doesn't describe the full extent of the risk. I would recommend either removing it entirely so that the text below just points people to OAuth 2.1, or copy the initial paragraph from Section 1.5 inline here.

Implementations MUST follow [OAuth 2.1 section 1.5](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-v2-1-12#section-1.5).

Specifically:

> 1. All authorization endpoints **MUST** be served over HTTPS.

Reviewer 2: Not just authorization endpoints, but also the token endpoint!
```suggestion
1. All authorization server endpoints **MUST** be served over HTTPS.
```

1. All redirect URIs **MUST** be either `localhost` or use HTTPS.

### 3.3 Authorization Code Protection

An attacker who has gained access to an authorization code contained in an authorization response can try to redeem the authorization code for an access token or otherwise make use of the authorization code. (Further described in [OAuth 2.1, section 7.5](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-v2-1-12#section-7.5))

> MCP clients **MUST** implement PKCE according to [OAuth 2.1 section 7.5.2](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-oauth-v2-1-12.html#name-countermeasures). PKCE helps  prevent authorization code interception attacks by requiring clients to create a secret verifier-challenge pair, ensuring that only the original requestor can exchange an authorization code for tokens.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MCP clients **MUST** implement PKCE according to [OAuth 2.1 section 7.5.2](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-v2-1-12#section-7.5.2). PKCE helps  prevent authorization code interception attacks by requiring clients to create a secret verifier-challenge pair, ensuring that only the original requestor can exchange an authorization code for tokens.
```

The numbered fragment links are usually safer to link to than the named ones.
